>> Sarah Drasner: All right,
so how was the last exercise?
Fun?
Everybody is like, yeah!
[LAUGH] It's gonna get more and
more and more fun from here, so
we did all the responsible work of
learning optimization and the SVG DOM and
all of this stuff.
Now you know GreenSocks syntax and
you're kind of like Superman.
[LAUGH] And so
you can do all sorts of stuff.
Now we're going to go even further and
start to manipulate that timeline.
All right, so now let's learn about
UI/UX animation versus standalone.
So we're going to talk about
interaction a little bit, but
also make some distinctions between
what we're going to make if we're making
UI/UX animation versus if we're making
a standalone kind of animation.
So, I can get started.
I have a repo full of sample icon system.
And it's done in Vue.js.
But if you're familiar with reactor,
you're familiar with angular.
It's not so
dissimilar from those kind of concepts.
That you won't be able to pick it up.
So If you're interested
in making SVG icons and
learning how they can be
styled along with text and
you can make any size icons and
stuff, you can come check this out.
So if I open up the kind
of live demo version,
here are all of the kind of
regular icons the tldr here
is that they're styled using
a thing called currentColor, so
any of the SVG icons in here,
say, fill="currentColor".
And if you say currentColor
with a camel case like that,
it will take whatever color
the text around it is.
So if you're trying to style icons, make
sure that you use fill current color or
stroke current color,
depending on what that icon is.
There's also animated icons.
So it shows how you would create an
animated icon for an icon system as well.
And I wrote a cookbook entry
that's in the view cook
book if you wanna dive in
to some of those things.
That's a few more, that's like maybe
a few more minutes into talking so
I just point to that reference material
if that's what you're interested in.
So UI/UX animation and
things like icons and things.
There are pieces of the UI that move
together in what we call UX choreography.
So if you have something like this,
it's still an SVG animation.
I'm gonna open it in CodePen
cuz it's a little bit nicer.
So it's still an SVG animation
that's made and when I open it, it
creates all of the icons and it closes and
basically we're able to conserve space but
they're all moving together in a way
that kinda works for that site.
So it would be kinda branded
along with that site, and
that movement would kinda
complement that site.
We talked a little bit about
that yesterday in the Design for
Developers course, so, if you wanna know
more about like branding, and color,
and those kind of things,
you can check out that course as well.
Now when we look at
that pen in particular,
you can already start to
guess how it was made right?
You probably know that
I'm clicking something.
I'm starting up a timeline.
Everything happens and then when I click
it again the timeline is reversed right?
I'm not writing all of those things again.
I'm taking the same thing and
I'm [SOUND] turning it on its head.
So, we're gonna learn how to do that.
So one thing that UI/UX Animation
is really good at
is helping with context switching.
So rather than something just popping
up in your face, something enters into
the screen and having transitions between
two different states is really good for
a human brain because usually things
don't just pop out of nowhere.
Usually that's a pretty bad sign if
I just appeared in front of you.
That's something out of a horror movie or
something right.
You don't want that, our brains
don't work with booleans like that.
That's something a computer understands
and humans don't really see in real life.
So if you can have things transition or
kind of enter into a space.
Then humans are like, I got it.
You came from over there.
There's not really an over there, right.
It's digital.
And things are just absolutely
positioned and things like that.
But the concepts of over there and
spatial maps help us feel like it's
a more native environment for our brains.
A standalone animation is one
that just lives by itself.
It's not working with something else.
So there are different considerations for
a standalone animation
than a UI/UX animation.
In a UI/UX animation,
the goal is not to be,
whoa, I'm animated, everybody look at me.
It's kind of to be more invisible.
If you think about Stripe's checkout flow,
you're not going through the checkout
flow going, it's so animated!
What you're thinking is, things
are being revealed to me as I need them,
it's not to be overwhelming.
Whereas a stand-alone animation,
that's the whole thing.
Your whole attention.
That's like the zooming around
Hogwarts on the broom, kind of site.
Where, really,
the only job of that website is to get you
excited about Hogwarts and Harry Potter.
It's not to get you to a contact form.
It's not to, you're not trying
to do something other than
be part of that animation.
So there's different ways
of thinking about each.
If you're working with
a data visualization,
that's like a standalone animation.
The whole purpose is to get
people to understand that data or
understand how it transitions when
different things in time occur.
So that is a standalone kind of idea,
whereas a UI/UX animation
is a little more subtle.
>> Sarah Drasner: So if we have
something like this contact form,
we can write, that's embarrassing,
it's like, already like, I know you.
[LAUGH] So I can write my name.
I can write my email, and
then I say contact us today.
And while I'm communicating
with the server and
other things are going on,
I have something entertaining me,
something is going on to keep me occupied
and that actually took a little while.
If I had had nothing happened,
if I hit that summit button and
am just sitting there am not sure,
first of all if it worked, like if it's
actually communicating with the server.
I'm not sure if,
I just gave it my information,
I don't know where that information
went it's kind of weird and
scary to give your information
randomly to a website.
So if you have something that goes on
in the background that occupies people.
And that's a really good thing for them.
They're like, okay,
first of all, I know you got it.
Second of all,
I know you're working on it.
And third of all,
I know you care [LAUGH] and
you're not just gonna take all my
information and do bad things with it.
So it's nice to kind of give people
that dopamine rush at the end and
let them know, okay, we got your stuff.
Everything's good.
Wait for a second, okay?
That's what would happen in real life.
If you handed me your business
card I wouldn't just stand there.
[LAUGH] I know it sounds crazy,
but humans actually think of computers
as having the same kind of conversation.
The reason why Clippy was so
ineffective, because if Clippy was
a person it would be really rude.
Like you're a writing letter and
someones is like, hello.
[LAUGH] That's not a good person.
They did this studies where
they had Clippy talk to you and
be a little bit more, be like make
fun of himself and be like, man,
you should just write a letter to
Microsoft and tell them how annoying I am.
And people started reporting
that they loved Clippy because
Clippy was a person who was likeable.
So when you're dealing with these human,
computer interfaces you can actually
start to think of them as a conversation.
If I handed you my business card I would
expect that you'd say, hold on a second.
Lemme find a place in my wallet for this.
And then I would get it out and
then I would put it away.
Okay, I've got it, thanks,
I'll talk to you later.
I wouldn't just like stand there and
hold it, or drop it on the floor and
look at it or whatever.
That's the same kind of concept